5. Therefore, being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus
Christ, by whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand, and rejoice
in hope of the glory of God. And not only so, but we glory in tribulations also, knowing that
tribulation worketh patience, and patience experience, and experience hope, and hope maketh
not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is
unto us. For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For
scarcely for a righteous man will one die, yet peradventure for a good man some would even dare
to die. But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for
us. Much more than, being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him.
For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more being
reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. And not only so, but we also joy in God through our
Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement. Wherefore, as by one man sin entered
into the world, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned,
for until the law, sin was in the world, but sin is not imputed when there is no law. Nevertheless,
death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's
transgression, who is the figure of him that was to come. But not as the offence, so also is the
free gift. For if through the offence of one many be dead, much more the grace of God, and the gift
by grace, which is by one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded unto many. And not as it was by one that
sinned, so is the gift. For the judgment was by one to condemnation, but the free gift is of many
offences unto justification. For if by one man's offence death reigned by one, much more they which
receive abundance of grace, and of the gift of righteousness, shall reign in life by one, Jesus
Christ. Therefore, as by the offence of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation,
even so by the righteousness of one the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life.
For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many
be made righteous. Moreover, the law entered that the offence might abound, but where sin abounded,
grace did much more abound. That as sin hath reigned unto death,
even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord.
CHAPTER VI. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound?
God forbid! How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein? Know ye not that so many
us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death? Therefore, we are
buried with him by baptism into death, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory
of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. For if we have been planted
together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection.
Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed,
that henceforth we should not serve sin. For he that is dead is freed from sin. Now,
if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him. Knowing that Christ
being raised from the dead, dieth no more, death hath no more dominion over him. For in that he
died, he died unto sin once, but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God. Likewise, reckon ye also
yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Let not
sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the lusts thereof. Neither
yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves
unto God as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness
unto God. For sin shall not have dominion over you, for ye are not under the law but under grace.
What then, shall we sin because we are not under the law but under grace? God forbid. Know ye not
that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey,
whether of sin unto death or of obedience unto righteousness? But God be thanked that ye were
the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered
you. Being then made free from sin, ye became the servants of righteousness. I speak after the manner
of men because of the infirmity of your flesh, for as ye have yielded your members servants to
cleanliness and to iniquity unto iniquity, even so now yield your members servants to righteousness
unto holiness. For when ye were the servants of sin, ye were free from righteousness. What fruit had
ye then in those things whereof ye are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death. But now being
made free from sin and become servants to God, ye have your fruit unto holiness and the end
of everlasting life. For the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life
through Jesus Christ our Lord. End of chapter 6